DOC Document new CMSEditLink extension. (#85)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/02_Developer_Guides/00_Model/13_Managing_Records.md

---
title: Managing Records
summary: Manage your DataObject records
icon: list-alt
---

# Managing Records

Most records in Silverstripe CMS are managed [in a GridField](../forms/field_types/gridfield) - whether in the [GridField](api:SilverStripe\Forms\GridField\GridField)
of some other record or directly [in a ModelAdmin](../customising_the_admin_interface/modeladmin/). The notable exceptions to this are
[SiteConfig](api:SilverStripe\SiteConfig\SiteConfig) and [SiteTree](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree).

## Getting an edit link

> To get a link for editing a record, other than some exceptions like `SiteTree`, you have historically had to generate the link mostly

Reviewer: I don't think we need to provide a historical background. The docs we provide are always for the latest version. Unfortunately we don't contain docs for older minor versions, though that's just a limitation of our documentation system, and not something we should attempt to handle here

> To get a link for editing a record, other than some exceptions like `SiteTree`, you have historically had to generate the link mostly

Reviewer: I don't think we need to provide a historical background. The docs we provide are always for the latest version. Unfortunately we don't contain docs for older minor versions, though that's just a limitation of our documentation system, and not something we should attempt to handle here

Reviewer 2: Removed.

from scratch with mostly hardcoded paths. This was especially tedious with nested `GridField` setups.

As of Silverstripe CMS 4.12.0 there is a new [CMSEditLinkExtension](api:SilverStripe\Admin\CMSEditLinkExtension) specifically
for the purpose of generating links to the edit forms of records. It operates on the assumption that your record is being edited in
a [GridFieldDetailForm](../forms/field_types/gridfield#gridfielddetailform) in some `GridField` (be it on another record or in a
`ModelAdmin`).

When using this extension, your model must also declare its `cms_edit_owner` as a
[configuration property](../configuration/configuration/#configuration-properties). The value must either be the class name of the

> `ModelAdmin` that directly manages the record, or the `has_one` relation for the record that this model is edited on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ModelAdmin` that directly manages the record, or the `has_one` relation for the record that this model is edited on, which is often the parent DataObject
```

Reviewer 2: Done

If the `cms_edit_owner` is a `has_one` relation, the class on the other end of the relation _must_ have
a reciprocal `has_many` relation as documented in [Relations](./relations#has-many). For best results, use dot notation on the
`has_many` relation. It must also implement a [getCMSEditLinkForManagedDataObject()](api:SilverStripe\Admin\CMSEditLinkExtension::getCMSEditLinkForManagedDataObject())

> method. The easiest way to do that is for it to have `CMSEditLinkExtension` applied as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method. The easiest way to do that is for it to apply the `CMSEditLinkExtension` to the reciprocal class.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

** app/src/Model/MyModel.php **
```php
namespace MyProject\Model;

use SilverStripe\Admin\CMSEditLinkExtension;
use SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject;

class MyModel extends DataObject
{
    private static string $cms_edit_owner = 'Parent';

    private static $has_one = [
        'Parent' => MyParentModel::class,
    ];

    private static $extensions = [
        CMSEditLinkExtension::class,
    ];
}
```

** app/src/Model/MyParentModel.php **
```php
namespace MyProject\Model;

use MyProject\Admin\MyModelAdmin;
use SilverStripe\Admin\CMSEditLinkExtension;
use SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject;

class MyParentModel extends DataObject
{
    private static string $cms_edit_owner = MyModelAdmin::class;

    private static $has_many = [
        'Children' => MyModel::class,
    ];

    private static $extensions = [
        CMSEditLinkExtension::class,
    ];
}
```

[hint]
If the `cms_edit_owner` is in some vendor dependency that you don't control, you can always apply `CMSEditLinkExtension`

> and the `cms_edit_owner` via yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the `cms_edit_owner` via yml.
```

Reviewer 2: Done
